[Music]
[Applause]
your holiness
after an audience with you five years
ago in Vatican City I met a group of
American priests and seminarians who
were studying in Rome and when I happen
to mention my hope that one day you
would return to the United States and
that perhaps this time your visit would
extend to the south and the West when I
mentioned this those seminarians broke
into applause today your holiness you
begin just such a return visit and today
all America applauds
in in a document of the Second Vatican
Council that you helped to draft it is
written in language intelligible to
every generation the church should be
able to answer the ever recurring
questions which men ask about the
meaning of this present life and of the
life to come in language intelligible to
every generation certainly no one can
speak with greater force to our own
generation than you yourself in Poland
you experienced Nazism and communism as
Pope you've suffered a terrorist attack
that nearly claimed your life still you
proclaim that the central message of our
own time that the central message of all
time is not hatred but love
[Applause]
during your papacy you have taken this
message to some 68 countries you have
celebrated mass in the ancient capitals
of Europe you have spoken words of truth
and comfort on the African savannah you
have visited new churches on the islands
of the Pacific you've addressed vast
gatherings throughout South America and
the Far East now you have come back to
the United States the nation of citizens
from all nations
if I might just interject something your
holiness I know that in your travels
you've made it a point to speak to
people in their own language well here
in Miami I have a suspicion that you
will find many in your audience eager to
hear you speak the beautiful language of
Spain
but in this the very month of your visit
we in the United States will be
celebrating the 200th anniversary of our
Constitution that document says a great
deal about the fundamental values in
which we Americans believe in the words
of the distinguished Catholic
philosopher Jacques my Marie Jane the
founding fathers were neither meta
physicians nor theologians but their
philosophy of life and their political
philosophy their notion of natural law
and of human rights were permeated with
concepts worked out by Christian reason
and backed up by an unshakable religious
feeling from the first then from the
first then our nation embraced the
belief that the individual is sacred and
that as God Himself respects human
Liberty so too must the state
[Applause]
in freedom we Americans have in these
200 years built a great country a
country of goodness and abundance indeed
your holiness it is precisely because we
believe in freedom because we respect
the liberty of the individual in the
economic as well as the political sphere
that we have achieved such prosperity we
are justly proud of the Marshall Plan
whose 40th anniversary was celebrated in
Europe earlier this year in Europe and
elsewhere we continue to place our might
on the side of human dignity in Latin
America and Asia we are supporting the
expansion of human freedom in particular
the powerful movement toward democracy
yet
[Applause]
and yet we Americans admit freely to our
shortcomings as you exert us we will
listen with all our hearts we yearn to
make this good land better still
[Applause]
in Florida and South Carolina in
Louisiana and Texas in Arizona
California and Michigan tens of
thousands of Americans more than 50
million Catholics will greet you they do
great works
America's Catholics in the name of their
church here in the United States
American Catholics put their faith into
action in countless ways maintaining
parochial schools that give
underprivileged children in our inner
cities a chance to receive a good
education supporting the AIDS Hospice is
established by Mother Teresa's
missionaries of charity and perhaps
simply putting helping to put on a
fundraising dinner for the local parish
abroad American Catholics likewise seek
to translate their faith into deeds
whether supporting missionaries in
distant lands or helping America's
Knights of Columbus restore the facade
of st. Peter's in Rome
but it will not be Catholics alone who
greets you Protestants of every
denomination Jews Muslims even many with
no defined faith at all Americans of
every kind and degree or belief will
wish your holiness well responding to
your moral leadership today's Florida
sunshine is no warmer than the affection
that you will meet I began a moment ago
by quoting from one document of the
Second Vatican Council permit me to
close by quoting from a second by the
hidden and kindly mystery of God's will
a supernatural solidarity reigns among
men a consequence of this is that one
person's holiness helps others today
Americans feel this solidarity and we
thank you for the courage and sanctity
the kindness and wisdom which which you
have done so much to help our troubled
world on behalf of all Americans your
holiness welcome back
[Applause]
mr. president dear friends dear people
of America it is a great joy for me once
again to be in your country and I thank
you for your world welcome
I am deeply grateful to your express my
special thanks the President of the
United States who are asked me by his
presence here today I thank
[Applause]
I thank the Bishops Conference and all
the individual bishops who have invited
me to their diocese and who have done so
much to prepare for my visit my cordial
greetings and good wishes go to all the
people of this land I thank you for
opening your hearts to me and for
supporting me by your prayers I assure
you of my own prayers
[Applause]
to everyone I repeat
on this occasion what I said on that
memorable day in 1979 when I arrived in
Boston on my part I come to you America
which Entenmann's of friendship
reverence and esteem I come as well who
already knows you and loves you as one
who wishes you to fulfill completely
your noble destiny of service to the
world
[Applause]
today like them I come to proclaim the
gospel of Jesus Christ to all those who
freely choose listen to me to tell again
the story of God's love in the world to
spell out once more the message of human
dignity with its in alien able human
rights and it's inevitable human duties
[Applause]
like so many before me coming to America
and to this very city of Miami
I come as a pilgrim a pilgrim in the
cause of justice and peace and human
solidarity striving build up the one
human family
I come here as a pastor the pastor of
the Catholic Church to speak and pray
with the Catholic people the theme of my
visit unity in the work of service
affords me welcome opportunity to enter
into into even deeper communion with
them in our common service to the Lord
it also enables me to experience ever
more keenly with them their hopes and
joys their aunt scientists and Greece I
come as a friend a friend of America and
of all Americans Catholic Orthodox
Protestant Jewish people of every
religion and all men and women goodwill
I come as a friend of the poor and sick
and the dying those who are struggling
with the problems of each day those were
rising and falling and stumbling on the
journey of life
those were seeking and discovering and
those not yet finding the deep meaning
of life liberty the pursuit of happiness
and finally I come to join you as you
celebrate the bicentennial of the great
document the Constitution of the United
States of America
[Applause]
I willingly join you in your prayer and
Thanksgiving to God for the providential
way in which the Constitution has served
the people of this nation for two
centuries for the Union for the Union it
has formed justice it has established
the tranquility and peace
it has ensure the general welfare
it has promoted and the blessings of
liberty
it has secured I join yours
in asking God to inspire you as
Americans who have received so much in
freedom and prosperity and human
enrichment for countries of the world
who are still waiting hoping to live
according to standards world of the
children of God
[Applause]
with great enthusiasm I look forward to
bei to being with you in the days ahead
meanwhile my prayer for all of you dear
people of America is this the Lord bless
you and keep you the Lord let his face
shine upon you and be gracious to you
Lord look upon you kindly and give you
peace god bless america
[Applause]
[Music]
[Laughter]
[Applause]
[Music]